To finish this section of the course,
let's now take care of the functionality of the popup
that we just built.
Now the way that we're going to make this work
is by taking advantage of something that exists in HTML
which is called anchors.
Now let me start by first showing you that somewhere else
on our page, okay.
So, let's see how anchors work.
So, imagine that here on our Tours section
I would place an ID, okay and also call it section Tours.
So, it doesn't really matter here,
it can be the same as the class.
So, I called this one here, section tours, with this ID.
And so remember ID's are unique, and so this here will
be the only section called section tours, of course.
And so HTML knows that.
Now, if I go up here and go to this button here,
which we have, well where is it?
Ah, here.
So, discover our tours, okay and so now
I can put that ID name in here.
So, hash section tours.
And let me show you what happens then.
Well, first we have to actually
hide this popup here, okay.
So, let's very quickly do that
just with display none,
and we're going to come back later to this.
Okay, so now it's gone.
And now when I hit this button,
it goes to this section here, okay.
And you actually see it here in the URL.
So, section tours, and this is what's called an anchor.
To here, is basically the anchor,
and we can also say in other words that this is the target.
So basically, this element here
was the target of that, okay?
Now I'm just showing you that so that we can later make use
of that target, okay.
So remember this and we're going to come back to it
in a second.
Now before we can actually start with the functionality
we need to first hide this popup, but display none
as we have here is not the best way
because if we have display none, we can then not animate it.
Okay, so display is either none or something else.
There's no numbers and so we cannot animate it over time.
So, let's do it in a different way,
and we did it already before a couple of times.
So, opacity zero, and also visibility hidden.
Because remember if we just set opacity to zero,
then basically the text, the content will still be there
just not visible.
And so now with visibility hidden it's also
at the same time hidden.
And now how do we actually make the popup visible.
Well, we just use what we talked a minute before,
and that is the anchor and the target, okay.
So, what I'm going to do is first in the HTML
here in this tour, where is it?
Yeah here.
So, I will set this one here to popup.
So this is the button that should show,
or popup when we click it, right?
So this button, this one, and this one,
and then we need to specify the ID down here at the popup.
So ID popup.
So when we click that button
then the anchor will basically become this popup.
So the target, remember I called it the target, okay.
So this popup here will become the target.
And so what we can we do here is to simply say
and that's actually it.
So we have the pseudo class called target,
which applies to the element which is the target
when we click on a button, or basically when the URL changes
to having target in it.
Because let me show you that to you.
If we now hit this here,
you will see that now we have popup here.
Okay, so in URL now we have popup,
and so that is target.
And the target is on this popup here
and so we can do it like this.
Now all I have to do is say opacity one,
and visibility visible.
And that's it.
Now we also need to animate it here a bit.
So let's say a transition, all in .3 seconds, okay?
So, let's take a look at that.
Well we need to delete this here.
And now take a look and here we go.
So the popup is now visible, great right?
So it actually worked.
Well we have no way of closing it right now
but we will take care of that later.
Let me show it again to you,
I think the animation wasn't working quite well.
But the functionality at least that is on point already.
So it's working already right now.
Okay, and the animation was not working because
of this .3 I was missing this second here.
But again, the functionality was just fine.
So let me recap what happens here.
So that we're 100% on the same page.
So we have this button here, right
and so this one here.
So we click this one here, and then soon as we click
this here it gets added to the URL of the page, okay.
And so hash popup becomes the target.
Okay, but since this one here has the ID of popup
the target is basically this entire element, okay.
And so as soon as this element becomes the target
the pseudo class called target is available on it,
and so we can then select that element using
that pseudo class as we did here,
and then specify our styles on it.
And that's all we did, and as you see it's working
quite well.
Now what we need next is a way of closing this popup.
So let's actually put that here in the HTML.
So we need like a small button.
And so let's put that in here actually.
So an anchor tag, and popup close.
Now the href here, it will be actually called section tours.
Okay, and why is that?
Well, because when we hit this link here it will move
to the section tours, okay, just as we did
with the other button and then this will
become the target, right?
And if the section tours becomes the target then the popup
is no longer the target, meaning that the pseudo class
no longer applies and then that means of course
that these styles disappear and the popup
will be hidden again.
So, back to the initial state, alright.
Did that make sense?
So basically, what this closing button will do
is to remove the target from the popup
so that it simply loses these styles and then its back
to its initial closed state, okay.
So that's now style that closing element
and actually we should put some text here,
we just left it empty.
Instead of putting a real icon here or something
I will just use another HTML entity and it's called times.
And that's basically like an x, okay.
So, popup close.
And here it is, so if I now hit this one,
and I think this H2 is now on top of it,
let's try it... no it's not working because this is on top.
So we first need to actually style it and position it.
So popup close, and it's here already
and so let's do some positioning of this link.
So we want the link state and the visited state.
The color should be, well, the color of the text.
I think we have a variable for that,
or actually not I think.
But it's here, I think this, simply this color.
Alright, so color grey-dark.
And the position should be absolute,
we'll want it 2.5 rem from the top and from the right.
So basically in the top right corner.
Let's increase it, and so three rem.
And of course we want no text decoration
in it, so it also be displayed as an inline block.
Okay, and then as soon as we hover it,
it should just become green, so color primary.
So let's take a look at that now.
Well, we set the position here to absolute
and so it will be positioned to its first positioned parent.
So which one is that?
Well, it is actually the... yeah the popup itself.
Or isn't it?
No, I think it's not, because the parent of this one here
is the popup right which doesn't have a defined position
but then the popup content has.
And so it will be positioned relative to the popup content,
which is fine.
So we don't need to specify the position property on
on its parent element, okay.
So, let's just check this out.
And here we go, and it actually worked already, right?
So now here the target is section tours
and that means that the popup gets closed because of course
the target is no longer the popup.
Alright, now it's not already positioned
the way we want it to be and it's not becoming green
but that's a minor problem that we can fix now.
So the color of course, the problem is this one
and now as for the position,
let's take a look at that again.
So, turning green now, but let's inspect it and yeah
I see why that's happening.
It's because you see it's really high, this element,
it's much higher than actually the X symbol itself is.
And that's because this is text and so it has
this pre-defined line height that we defined.
So we should just set the line height to one
and then it will actually be exactly here in the place
where we want it to be, alright.
So it now opens and closes just fine.
But there is still one minor difference here,
and that's this one.
Take a look at the box now, so you see it basically it's
coming in toward the user from the back of the page
zooming in towards us.
So, how do we do that?
Well, that's actually very easy.
Let's just go back here and...
well let me that this code and put it a bit more down
where its more logical to be, so down here.
So, we want to style the content here, right.
At the moment where the popup is open.
Well, and when does it happen?
Well, of course, when the popup becomes the target.
Of course not that one.
So, makes sense?
Again the popup here becomes the target and then we
simply style the child element of the popup
which is called popup content, okay.
So, what should the initial state of this content be?
Well, it's basically scaled down
and it's also invisible, right?
And so let's start by putting the opacity to zero,
and we scale it.
Now I'm going to put a transform here and scale
but it's not going to work and I'm going to show you why.
But I hope you can already
imagine why it's not going to work.
Okay, because we actually ran into this problem before.
So let me just show it to you.
Well, that's the original of course, that was stupid.
So, adjust we can see it, let me show it to you.
And so it's here, it's actually scaled down,
but it's down here where it should not really be, right?
So, let me inspect it and show it to you
why it's happening this way.
So the content here, reload it, and yeah alright, so.
You see why it's happening?
Because we have defined to transform here,
but we already had one transform, and you can only have
one transform or one property
in each declaration block, of course.
And so this one here appears less and therefore,
it overrides this one.
Okay, so let's fix that, and we know that this transform
actually comes from this absolute center.
So, what do we do when we want two transforms
at the same time?
Well, we have to put them in the same.
And so we're basically repeating the one that we have
coming from our mix in, but that's the only way that we
have here to do it this way, okay.
And so now it should look alright.
Okay, and now all we have to do is to then scale it
back to 100% as soon as the pop up opens, okay.
So let's do that, so the opacity is zero, so it's invisible
and then we put it back to one, and scale it back to one.
Okay?
So these here are basically the open states.
So these two is when the popup is open,
and that's when its exact position with the perfect size,
the perfect opacity, and of course the same thing here
for the popup container, basically.
Alright, and with that we're almost good to go I believe.
We just have to add the animation here, so transition
all .4 seconds let's say.
So let's take a look at that now.
Alright, I just want to add something here to show you
and that's a small delay.
So remember a transition is just to shorten for a bunch
of transition related properties and one of them
is transition delay.
And so we can just delay this transition here by .2 seconds.
So basically with this, we first allow the black background
to come in and then after that we fade in our popup box.
Okay, so a popup content here.
Well it's actually not exactly after the popup fades in
because that takes .3 seconds, but doing .2
is absolutely fine here.
So we don't have to wait all the way
until it's completely fade in.
So let's try that now, and yeah so I think
that actually looks better.
Now maybe we can even start from something smaller here
than .5, let's see how it looks like with point...
with zero and fading it in for half a second.
So again we can experiment with this,
make it look like we want and yeah I like that one as well.
Let's take a look again.
Alright, I think that works as well too.
Maybe it's a bit too much so let's put .25,
but with that we should be good to go.
Then again you can change these values for yourself
if you want to, but I really like it this way.
Alright, and with that we finished this huge part
of the project.
So almost 25 lectures I believe is this section.
And so I'm really glad that you're still sticking
with me here at this point.
It's really good that you coded this entire webpage here.
And so I hope that you really feel
the sense of accomplishment after creating
such a huge project.
Okay, so really great.
Great job and congratulations for that.
However, we are not really done with this project, okay?
Because right now it works on a big screen like this one.
But what happens if we would see this on a mobile device?
So what happens if we have a smaller screen like this.
Well, then this is really a disaster, right.
It doesn't look good at all, it's terribly really.
And so since this course is on advanced CSS
and responsive design, I'm going to teach you
how to make this design responsive over the next section,
including a topic called responsive images.
Which is actually a pretty advanced topic.
And so there's a lot more coming up in the next section,
really great content again.
And so yeah, hope to see you there,
and I'm waiting for you there.